AI Price Prediction using LSTM Neural Network

This project aims to predict the future price of the crypto of your choice using a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural network. The model is trained on historical data of prices and is capable of making predictions for the next 30 days.

Overview

This project leverages the power of LSTM, a type of recurrent neural network (RNN) that is well-suited for time series prediction due to its ability to learn long-term dependencies. By using historical price data, the model learns patterns and trends to forecast future prices.

Features

- Data Collection: Uses the yfinance library to download historical price data for Ethereum.
- Data Preprocessing: Normalizes the data and prepares it for training and testing.
- Model Training: Trains an LSTM model using the processed data.
- Model Evaluation: Evaluates the model’s performance using Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE).
- Future Prediction: Predicts Ethereum prices for the next 30 days based on the trained model.

Requirements

	Python 3.6 or higher
	TensorFlow
	Keras
	NumPy
	Pandas
	Scikit-learn
	yfinance

Usage

  1.	Clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/evireFW/AI-Framework.git 
    cd examples
    
  2.	Install the required packages
     
     pip install -r requirements.txt

  3. Run the script:
     
    python btc_price_prediction_no_sentiment.py
    python eth_price_prediction_no_sentiment.py

  4.	View the predictions: The script will print the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) of the model and the predicted prices for the next 30 days.

File Structure

  btc_price_prediction_no_sentiment.py | eth_price_prediction_no_sentiment.py : The main script that collects data, preprocesses it, trains the model, evaluates it, and makes future predictions.
  eth_data.csv | btc_data.csv: The CSV file where historical price data is saved (generated by the script).

How It Works

 1. Data Collection: The script downloads historical price data for Ethereum/Bitcoin from Yahoo Finance using the yfinance library.
 2. Data Preprocessing: The closing prices are normalized using MinMaxScaler from scikit-learn to fit within a range of 0 to 1.
 3. Dataset Creation: The data is split into training and testing sets. Training data is further split into training and validation sets.
 4. Model Training: An LSTM model is built and trained on the training data. The model is validated using the validation set to prevent overfitting.
 5. Evaluation: The model’s performance is evaluated using the RMSE metric.
 6. Future Prediction: The trained model is used to predict the next 30 days of Ethereum prices, starting from the last available data point.

Results

The script outputs the RMSE value, indicating the model’s prediction error, and prints the predicted Ethereum/Bitcon prices for the next 30 days.

Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have any improvements or suggestions, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.